have well US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin as you know is in Tel Aviv he's
met with prime minister Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin n who is speaking now
at the airport let's listen him as uh as
I did as well in my conversations with u
Egyptian colleagues and the gari farm
Ministry
yesterday uh I also had a chance to meet
with the hostage families again uh and
it's hard to
describe what they're going through
every single day um we uh we made
progress in the last couple of weeks on
the hostage negotiations closing gaps
but almost by definition when you get
down to uh the last items they they tend
to be the hardest so there's still a lot
of work to be done hard work to be done
but we're determined to try to get it
done we also talked about the imperative
of surging and sustaining humanitarian
assistance for the people in Gaza
100% of the population of Gaza is
acutely food andse secure 100% is in
need of humanitarian assistance there
have been some positive steps taken in
recent days to improve the situation but
it's not enough and we talked about what
needs to happen uh to get much more
assistance to many more people more
effectively uh we also talked about uh
Rafa we share Israel's goal of defeating
Hamas which is responsible for the worst
massacre of the Jewish people since the
Holocaust and we share the goal of
ensuring Israel's long-term
security uh as we've said though a major
military ground operation in Rafa is not
the way to do it uh it risks killing
more civilians it risks uh wreaking
greater Havoc with the provision of
humanitarian assistance it risks further
isolating Israel around the world and
jeopardizing its long-term security and
standing
so we're looking forward to having
Israeli officials in Washington next
week to talk about a different way of
achieving these objectives objectives
that we share of defeating Hamas and
ensuring Israel's long-term security uh
it really requires an integrated
humanitarian uh military and political
plan as I said we'll be talking about
that next week going through the details
of what we see as the best way forward
uh we also had an opportunity to talk
about the longer term trajectory uh what
needs to happen once the conflict in
Gaza is over uh conversations that I had
with our partners over the last couple
of days and that we had here in Israel
as well um we're determined that Israel
succeed in making sure it can defend
itself uh that October 7th never happens
again that it emerged from this strong
secure integrated in the region uh uh
with a future of security and peace not
only for Israelis but for Palestinians
and for our other friends in the region
and we believe there's a path forward to
do that we'll be continuing to work to
flesh out that path and to try to walk
down it in the days when we
Saye um Mr secretary thank you uh can
you give us an update on the ceasefire
talks in Doha what is the latest that
you've heard from the negotiators and
also today Israel has announced um a
land seizure of 800 hectars in the
occupied West Bank just when you're are
doing your visit here what are your
thoughts so on the on the negotiations I
can't give you any any more details
other than to say that we're intensely
engaged in them working with the qataris
working with the Egyptians working with
Israel and uh we have teams in in in
Doha and as I said uh we've gotten it
down to uh a few remaining gaps but
the closer you get to the goal line the
harder that last yard is so uh there
there are some hard issues to work
through but we're determined to do
everything we can to get there and to
get people home uh and um the
negotiators will be working intensely to
see if we can get that done uh I hadn't
seen the news you referred to but look
you know our uh our views uh on
settlement expansion uh you know our
views on um everything from demolitions
to evictions
uh to other steps unilateral steps uh
that are taken that um make the already
challenging Prospect of two states even
more distant so I haven't seen the
specifics of this but anyone taking
steps that makes things more difficult
more challenging this time it's
something that uh we uh we have a
problem find of clarification when you
say we have teams you mean us has teams
on the ground in Doha today and can you
just confirm the negotiations have begun
like they've been continuing this I
can't it's it should be going going
forward if not immediately now certainly
in the hours uh
ahead Michael uh thank you uh can you
tell us in Practical terms what the US
was trying to achieve with the
resolution that was put forward at the
United Nations today and then on your
conversations today um you described in
Broad stroke some themes that are
familiar I wonder whether you delivered
or heard any messages today that are new
and different from your past
conversations here so on the uh on the
resolution which got very strong support
but then was cynically vetoed by um
Russia and China um I think we were
trying to show the International
Community sense of urgency about getting
a ceas Fire tied to the release of
hostages something that everyone uh
including the countries that veto the
resolution should have been able to get
behind um the resolution of course also
condemned Hamas it's unimaginable why U
count wouldn't uh be able to do that uh
but I think the fact that we got uh such
a strong vote despite the veto uh by two
of the permanent members of Security
Council again is is evidence and
demonstration of the um commitment the
conviction of countries around the world
notably on the security Council uh to
see about getting the ceasefire uh
getting the release of hostages now
that's what the resolution said that's
what it called for and I think there it
it showed that a strong commitment into
that from many many countries um with
regard to the conversations we had look
this is uh this is an ongoing
process as I said we really were focused
on three things the hostage negotiations
humanitarian assistance uh and rafen uh
and it was important that um again we we
we focus on all three things we I can't
I'm not going to get into the details of
what we discussed uh but
I think uh from from my perspective at
least these were important candid
conversations to have at a critical time
on all three uh of those issues know
that it will be isolated if it doesn't
change its path again we what I what I
shared and I think what um uh they've
heard from President Biden as well uh
directly is we have the we have the same
goals the defeat of Hamas Israel's
longterm security but a major ground
operation in Raa is not in our judgment
the way to achieve it and uh you know
we've been very clear about that but
most important we have a senior team
coming to Washington next week we'll all
be taking part in those discussions
we'll be able to lay out for them in
detail I started to do that today but
it's important that the teams with all
the expertise lay out in detail how
those goals can best be accomplished
with an integrated humanitarian military
and political plan um we'll put all that
on the table uh of course we'll hear
from them too uh and uh we'll take it to
next week
thanks well you've been listening there
to US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
speaking in Tel Aviv after meeting
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu earlier on Friday now he said
that progress has being made on
negotiations in Doha they've gotten it
down he said to a few remaining gaps but
there is still some way to go Lincoln
also says that he pressed the need to
increase humanitarian Aid and warned
Israel against its planned offense of in
Rafa he says they also discussed
long-term plans including the
integration of Israel in the region well
let's now go to H salut she's an
occupied East jerusem keeping an eye on
this visit for us H there are still
clearly some broad differences of
opinion between blinkin and
Netanyahu that's exactly right there
have been disagreements between American
and Israeli officials for some months
now specifically when it comes to this
ground invasion in tah Netanyahu in fact
speaking earlier today saying that the
ground Invasion will happen with or
without us support that if it doesn't
come with us support Israel will be
forced to do it alone the Americans have
actually asked the Israelis at the
request of US President Joe Biden to
send a delegation to Washington to brief
them on plans of how exactly this ground
invasion is going to work with nearly a
million and a half Palestinians seeking
refuge in gaza's Southernmost city
earlier today you also had the US vice
president kamla Harris who said that
there is nowhere for these Palestinian
civilians in raah to go to and then we
just heard from blinkin who said that
this is a war that will require
humanitarian political and Military type
of thinking not just one way which
Netanyahu says is military pressure so
the continued disputes between American
and Israeli officials are quite
prevalent now when it comes to these
negotiations in Doha blinkin is saying
that there is progress and the last bit
of it is always the hardest these final
sticking points but during the same hour
Israeli officials speaking anonymously
to Israeli media have said quote that
there is no real progress in these talks
and that's because of sticking points
from both side with that Hamas wanting
to see an end to the war and the
Israelis saying that even if there is a
long pause in the fighting the war will
continue after that especially when it
comes to this ground Invasion into ra
that is seemingly causing now some
problems between the Americans and their
Israeli counterparts Hut keeping an eye
on that blinkin visit for us in Israel
thank you very much H well I joined now
again on set by our diplomatic editor
James Bay James I'm curious about what
you made of blinken's tone because as we
heard from H literally earlier after
that meeting with Netanyahu Netanyahu
walked out and said he's going to go
ahead with his raffer offensive with or
without Washington's support but now
we've got blinkin getting on a plane at
the airport saying oh no no they're
still trying to convince them I'm afraid
to say that um Secretary of State
blink's comments were exactly the same
comments as he made before he started
the trip when he arrived in Caro and as
he was leaving he said the same thing he
hasn't changed the script but what
really went on in the meeting I think
will be very very interesting because
there are big big problems uh between
Israel and the United States right now
uh there is um the problems of
the Rafa offensive which clearly is the
number one problem the US says that
should not happen and the Israelis say
it's going to happen whatever if you
support us fine if not we're going to go
ahead anyway uh there's the problem of
humanitarian Aid if that resolution had
passed today there are sections in that
resolution really very critical of
Israel um they didn't name Israel but
they did say that there need to be
lifting of all the barriers to
International Aid many more Crossing
points Maritime uh route um into Gaza uh
all of things that aren't happening
because Israel is not allowing them to
happen um and then with regard to the
way forward longer term Israel opposes
the presence of the Palestinian
Authority to run Gaza that is the US's
preferred solution Israel opposes the
idea of a two-state solution and add on
to that the fact that now we're in a
position where the United States is in a
really difficult position at the UN
Security Council they've flagged the
idea that they support the idea of a
ceasefire even though their resolution
um many say wasn't really a proper a
proper explicit demand for a ceasefire
um so they now may well be in a position
that they're going to have to either
abstain or vote for a resolution for
ceile creating yet another obstacle and
problem uh between the Netanyahu
Administration and the Biden
Administration well interesting Dynamics
there I wish we had a little bit more
insight into them James Bay our
diplomatic editor thank you for joining
me again on this
newsour